Allu Arjun was born in Chennai, Tamil Nadu to producer Allu Aravind and Nirmala.
His paternal grandfather was the film comedian Allu Rama Lingaiah, while his paternal aunt is married to Chiranjeevi.

On 6 March 2011, Arjun married Sneha Reddy in Hyderabad.[11] He has a son named Ayaan and a daughter named Arha. 
In 2016, Allu Arjun started a nightclub named 800 Jubilee in collaboration with M Kitchens and Buffalo Wild Wings.[12]

Career beginnings (2001–2008)
After playing as a child artist in Vijetha and as a dancer in Daddy, Arjun made his adult debut in Gangotri.[2][3]

Arjun then appeared in Sukumar's comedy Arya.[4][5] His role in Arya was his breakthrough, earning a first Filmfare 
Best Telugu Actor Award nomination and he won a Special Jury award at the Nandi Awards ceremony, two CineMAA Awards 
for Best Actor and Best Actor Jury[6] and the film was a critical and commercial success.[7]

He next starred in V. V. Vinayak's Bunny playing the role of Bunny, a college student. Critics praised his efforts, 
mannerisms and dancing.[8] His next film was A. Karunakaran's musical love story Happy.[9]
 He then starred in Puri Jagannadh's action film Desamuduruin which he played the role of Bala Govindam, 
 a fearless journalist who falls with a woman with a darker past.[10]
 
 Further success and experimentation of genres (2008–2013)
 
 His next film was Bhaskar's Parugu, where he played the role of Krishna, 
 a happy-go-lucky guy from Hyderabad who helps his friend to elope with his love, 
 only to experience the wrath of the woman's father and the emotional struggle he felt. 
 idlebrain.com wrote: "Allu Arjun is pretty excellent in the first half as the characterization
 in the first half is vibrant and needs loads of energy. He carried the entire first half on his shoulders. 
 He excelled in the emotional scenes in the second half."[13]

After playing in a guest role in Shankar Dada Zindabad, he starred in Sukumar's psychological love story Arya 2. 
He played the role of Arya, an orphan who is behaviorally sick in that he is consumed with possessiveness for his friend Ajay,
 who never accepts him. Sify wrote: "Allu Arjun is full of energy as the guy caught in the powerful current of love. 
 Though he plays the part with negative shades, his characterization could evoke a lot of sympathy from the audiences. 
 His dances are mind-blowing and he excels in emotional scenes."[14] idlebrain.com wrote: "Allu Arjun is perfect as Arya. 
 His character in the movie has the qualities of a psychotic and he portrayed the character flawlessly. He shined in emotional 
 scenes in the second half of the movie. Allu Arjun is probably the best dancer of current era in Tollywood. That is the reason 
 why he made hugely difficult dances appear fluid and effortless in the first four songs of the movie."[15].
 
 Arjun starred in two experimental films in 2010. The first was Gunasekhar's Varudu. Rediff wrote: 
 
 